---
layout: lesson
title:  "Preface"
chapter: "0.0.0"
menuindex: 0
githubedit: https://github.com/mrktps/web-architecture-101/edit/master/_unit_0/preface.markdown
---

*Design serves society from within. Architects bare the responsibility of designing for the public using inclusive design patterns and practices. For if they do not, society as a whole suffers. So that we can best serve society, this book provides you with tooling to author a web with social considerations for everyone in&nbsp;mind.*

I wanted to make tshirts. That lead me to study Graphic Design and ultimately become a Web Developer. I had no idea what I was getting myself into. You may not either. And that is OK. We'll get a better understanding of what we are getting ourselves into by exploring the social implications and responsibilities of your craft. By approaching authoring the web from an architect's perspective we will discover design patterns that ensure the creations we present to society are universal, inclusive, accessible, efficient and performant. 

There is a responsibility that comes with authoring the web. You must never forget what “the web” is short&nbsp;for:<br>the **world wide** web.

So as you publish to the web ask yourself “Is this world wide?”. Can anyone find it? Once found can anyone access it? Once accessed can anyone use it? What does this experience cost the user?

As social architects we'll strive to integrate inclusive design patterns into our work. Not because it is the right thing to do. This isn't about morality or politics. We'll strive for inclusive design patterns because they foster a better experience for everyone and we should always design to the best of our ability. 

